# All about value(s)

Financial independence of the ecological world is the main aspect of our work. We believe that the key to sustainable life on Earth lies in a revaluation of ecological efforts. The dominant paradigm for funding ecological work revolves around donations, philanthropy and public funding. The key characteristic is thus a dependence on the willingness of other actors to support biodiversity stewardship. As such they sit at the bottom of the priority list rendering their work structurally vulnerable.

We counteract this paradigm by developing new ways of valuing the work of biodiversity stewards, moving the appreciation from 'nice to have’ toward ‘essential necessity'. The key to this shift lies in integrating the eco-data that the stewards produce into products of the digital economy thereby making the data indispensable. This differs from conventional approaches, usually in the realm of what has come to be known as ecosystem services. In our proposition, the value derives from the utility of the data that is produced by doing ecological work. It is thus independent from typical valuations of nature as natural capital in service of human life. The commodification is located at the level of data production and data utility, leaving the integrity of ecological groundwork intact.

Our valuation practices are not aimed at putting a price tag on nature, nor at assessing the value of its eco-systemic services. We are building toward a new economy that leaves enough on-site space for biodiversity stewards to continue doing their work. It enables them to avoid full integration and exposure to the pressures of the market while stepping into the digital economy to sustain the funding of their work.

## Digital life not digital twinning

Our pipeline connects eco-data to the digital creative space, where individuals and communities create representations and assets, so-called eco-linked assets. By utilising our protocol, these digital creatives can access and incorporate eco-data provided by ecological stewards into their projects. We do not impose a specific aesthetic or representation of nature in the digital world, but rather empower digital creatives to collaborate, innovate, and showcase their unique perspectives. We embrace the idea that there must be a plurality of valid representations of eco-data, multiplying the impact and possibilities for biodiversity restoration.

## Sovereign Nature as co-existence

The Sovereign Nature Initiative was inspired by the idea of self-owning and self-governing forests and thus autonomous, non-human agency. Exploring avenues for acknowledging non-human agency is inscribed into the core of our mission. Yet, we emphasise the role of the foundational existing embeddedness of humans within nature, within ecosystems. We are also deliberately seeking collaborations with organisations that work with a holistic approach, including the role that human communities play for interspecies co-existence. Our work taught us that the separation of humans from nature is artificial and not experienced or lived as such by our partners. The amalgam of the daily work in the field, the data produced about it, as well as the formal modes of representation in the technical and administrative organisational structures are part of the same organism. The fantasy of unmediated support for an animal or a plant absurdly reduces this complexity and is counter-intuitive when taking the work of biodiversity stewards seriously.

It is precisely the respect for the complexity of this layering that makes our work stand out. In a time when the pressure for ever more accurate and ever less mediated eco-data is accelerated by technological innovation, the most important work is to hold space for the thick entangled fabric of life where technology is in service of facilitating conviviality.

We do our part. But it neither constitutes a silver bullet, nor a final destination. It is the important next step that enables a larger socio-ecological transformation, or as we like to call it, that forges a pathway to flipping the economics of ecology.
